---
title: Adding subscribers
---

You can add subscribers to your list using different methods:

### Importing

The fastest way to add a lot of subscribers, for example when moving from a different email marketing service, is to import them from a CSV file.

You can easily import a list of subscribers into an existing list. Upload a CSV file with these columns: `email`, `first_name`, `last_name` and `tags`, and Mailcoach will start importing these into the list. Additional columns will be added as extra attributes.

When you want to attach multiple tags to a subscriber, use ; as the delimiter. You can follow the progress of the import, see any errors that occurred during the process, and download the uploaded file by using the action menu.

<!-- @todo: Screenshot -->

Email addresses that have the *unsubscribed* status will not be resubscribed when running an import. Confirmation mails will not be sent out to users, even if you have enabled double opt-in for this list. Imported email addresses that had not already unsubscribed, will receive the Confirmed status and will receive any subsequently sent campaigns.

Because these lists can get quite large and an import might take a while, we email you to inform you when Mailcoach has finished importing the subscribers.

### Manually

You can manually add subscribers through the interface by clicking the "Add subscriber" button on your list's subscribers overview.

### Forms

You can accept email list subscriptions coming from external sites by adding a subscription form to that site.

In order to accept incoming form subscriptions you check the "Allow POST from an external form" checkbox on your list's onboarding settings.

Here's an example form you can embed on an external site to accept subscriptions:

```html
<form method="POST" action="::tenantUrl::/subscribe/<uuid-of-emaillist>">
    <div>
        <label for="email">Email</label>
        <input name="email">
    </div>
   <!-- optionally you can include the first_name and last_name field
    <div>
        <label for="first_name">First name</label>
        <input name="first_name">
    </div>
    <div>
        <label for="last_name">Last name</label>
        <input name="last_name">
    </div>
    -->
    
    <!-- Optionally, you can override the confirmation pages -->
    <input type="hidden" name="redirect_after_subscribed" value="::tenantUrl::/subscribed"  />
    <input type="hidden" name="redirect_after_already_subscribed" value="::tenantUrl::/already-subscribed"  />

    <!-- only required if your list has double opt-in enabled
    <input type="hidden" name="redirect_after_subscription_pending" value="::tenantUrl::/redirect-after-pending"  />
    -->
    <div>
       <button type="submit">Subscribe</button>    
    </div>
</form>
```

### Adding tags

You can specify one or more tags in an input field named `tags` that should be attached to the subscriber when it gets created.

```html
<!-- somewhere in your form -->
<input type="hidden" name="tags" value="tagA;tagB">
```

Make sure to add these tags to the allowed subscriber tags in your onboarding settings

[[[x-callout]]]
We highly recommend that you turn on double opt-in for email lists that allow form subscriptions. This will keep your list healthy. Also consider adding a honeypot or spam protection to the form to avoid bots from trying to subscribe.
[[[/x-callout]]]

## Using the API

You can also add subscribers using the API, [check out the documentation](/docs/using-the-api/subscribers#content-subscribing-to-an-email-list).

